So the next step is to try this in Chrome,
so
I'm going to local host 5000 here and
I'm going to open DevTools.
So we have the DevTools available here for
us.
So, something that we have in DevTools
is a whole section for application.
This section is the one that
is important for PWAs, okay.
So there are many things here and
we are going to cover most
of them during the day.
But we are going to start with
the first section that says manifest.
Manifest is the first step to actually
make a PWA, it's called Web app manifest.
And as you can see, it actually
says that there is no manifest,
because this is not a PWA.
So that's the first step.
I need to go back to my source code and
start writing that web app manifest file.
Back to Visual Studio code what
I need to create is a new file,
the web app manifest is a JSON file that
we need to create apart from the HTML.
It's actually like the heart of a PWA and
typically we have only one heart,
right as humans.
Well PWAs only have one manifest,
so if you have two
manifests you have two PWAs,
okay, one manifest one PWA.
So what's a manifest file?
So I need to create a new file.
First, we need to set the name for
this file.
Let me tell you this it's a JSON file,
and for probably five years,
most PWAs authors were calling
this fine manifest dot JSON.
We're gonna still call
that file like this.
It's your name, the only thing that
matters here is that that file should
be served of using the right content
type for a JSON, okay, that's all.
However, the web app manifest
it's actually a spec in the W3C,
so it's an official spec.
As an official spec, they do have an
official recommendation for the extension.
So if we Google Web app manifest spec,
we're going to see MDN first and
then the W3C.
This is the official spec and
if we search here for
extension the file extension that is
recommended is actually, dot web manifest.
But again if you wanna
use dot JSON it's fine.
So we can call that file
app dot web manifest.
So I can rename this as
Actually VS code is smart enough
to recognize extension and
also select JSON by default when
we are in this web manifest file.
But again, if you wanna call it
manifest dot JSON, it's fine.
And because it's a JSON,
we're going to start with an object.
So curly braces, and
here we start adding properties.
We can go over the spec and
read one by one but I wanna emphasize on
the most important properties and
actually the mandatory properties.
So the first mandatory
property is called name so
I'm going to Ober that will quote name and
a value.
Before setting the name I wanna emphasize
here that we have a title, okay?
And I used a title here that reflects
on what happens typically on
a web app today with a find
the title element for SEO.
So we're gonna see what
happens with that later.
But the name of the app seems
to be called by masters,
so I'm gonna copy that into my name.
And by the way here I can add more things,
I can add like a coma and
something else like the best PWA in town.
It can be a really long name, okay?
But at this point you're thinking,
hey Max,
we might have a problem because,
typically an app will have an icon.
And let's think about Android or iPhone.
We don't have a space for
a name like this.
Well fortunately, there is a another
property that we can add in
this manifest, it's called short name.
And by the way within the manifesto spec.
Every property that is a complex sentence,
so
different words
are separated by underscore,
the property names that
the values are using a dash.
So if we have a value that has
multiple words we use a dash, but
the property name uses underscore.
For the property we use snake case and for
the value we use Keva case that
is the one that uses a dash.
So for example here for a short name we
can just say code bad or Kota masters.
So, at this point,
you may be asking, Okay,
how long should these
short names should be?
Or how short?
Well actually, we don't have a
specification here it depends on the west.
It also depends on the font size
that the user has set there.
So it's difficult to
actually set a number.
What I recommend typically is
to stay within 12 characters.
So if your name states within 12
characters you're kind of safe,
if you're passing that it might not fit,
and
if that happens it may be cropped or
filled with an ellipsis.
So in this case maybe it's safer to just
stay with just code path, okay, like this.
So we have name, we have a short name,
by the way if I save this file,
so and if I go back to chrome.
Refresh, the manifest still says
that dot manifest was detected.
So I still don't have the manifest
because we do have the file but
we didn't link the HTML document
with that file, so that's mandatory.
Because we are not using a standard
name like the fav icon, okay?
We actually need to set
the name in the HTML.
So, back in Visual Studio code in my HTML,
what I need to do is add a link.
Similar to the style sheet it's
another link With a rel manifest.
And the HREF will be app dot web manifest,
like that.
So that will actually
link my main document,
my HTML with the web app manifest only one
manifest per HTML is possible.
Okay, so now I have my link let's try it.
I will refresh and
now something appears here with a lot of
warnings as you can see but
at least we have something.
So it's loading the manifest and
now I have some errors and
warnings saying that most
operating system require icons.
Yeah, I know certainly icon and
then we have a lot of other situations
that I should change, because there
are some properties that I didn't set.
So let's go one by one.
Going back to the manifest.
The next mandatory property that
we have to set, is start URL.
So a start URL receives actually a URL,
that typically is
relative to the manifest.
I actually recommend to always
save the manifest file in
the root folder of your
progressive web app.
Don't store that file in a resources
folder or something like that.
You can, but if you do that,
you need to always think about what's
going on because sometimes things
will not work as expected.
So it's a good idea to chef store
the file in the root folder of your PWA.
And by the way,
what's the root folder of your PWA.
It's up to you but
you can have a PWA per domain so for
example Starbucks the whole domain
app.starbucks.com is for the PWA.
So their manifest is
actually the root folder but
also you can share your domain and
you can have more than one PWA there.
In fact you can have unlimited
quantity of PWAs in one domain.
This is interesting, so
in that case the best pattern or
the best recommendation that I have for
you is to use a different folder,
each PWA in a different folder, okay?
It's not mandatory actually but
it's actually a good idea.
So for most situations typically here,
we actually load the route file or
the route file in the current folder.
Most of the time,
we don't type index html,
because also we don't type index
HTML in the browser, Okay?
So because this is a URL and
not server file names, so
most of the time we just
use forward slash or
dot forward slash that means
the default document in this folder.
Why do we need to set the start URL?
So I said it's mandatory to
pass the PWA criteria, but
it's not actually mandatory from the spec.
Do you remember the Starbucks PWA,
so what happens
If I go to order And I want to
order a hot tea, like a chai tea.
If you look at the URL,
I'm currently in that particular
deep link in that chai tea.
So if I install the app at this moment and
I don't have an A start URL,
every time I open the app,
it will actually open the chai tea.
It's like a bookmark.
Okay, we don't want that.
What we need is to always
start from the homepage.
So every time you open
the app from the icon,
it doesn't matter where you are when
you're installing that app.
You always wanna start from
scratch from the start, so
that's why we need the start URL, Okay?
So other properties that we have here.
Not all the properties are monetary but
it's a good idea to set them.
We have for example orientation,
this property allow us to set All and
that's the default value in this
case it means that you're actually
accepting your app to work portrait,
landscape and anything in between.
But you can also say you know
what I don't like my app
to work in landscape so
you just say portrait here.
However we need to think that not
everything that we are writing in
the manifest will work everywhere, for
example on desktop portrait and
landscape makes no difference.
On iOS Apple is not supporting
the orientation property so
it's going to be ignored.
Your PWA will be installable anyway but
some properties may be ignored